= Grooveshark API

Unofficial grooveshark API ruby library gives your ability to search and stream songs, 
manage playlists, media library and favorites.
API was discovered using http proxy and does not pretend to be always valid due to website API changes.

= Installation

  gem install grooveshark
  
= Getting Started

Lets first create a session. 
Grooveshark session is a regular PHP session with expiration date of 7 days.

  require 'rubygems'
  require 'grooveshark'
  
  client = Grooveshark::Client.new
  
To get session key just call

  session = client.session
  
You can store this key for 7 days after creation and use it like this:

  client = Grooveshark::Client.new(SESSION_KEY)
  
Now we can find some songs:
  
  songs = client.search_songs('Nirvana')
  
  songs.each do |s|
    s.id          # Song ID
    s.name        # Song name
    s.artist      # Song artist name
    s.album       # Song album name
    s.duration    # Song duration in seconds (not always present, 0 by default)
  end
  
We got collection of songs. Check Song object for additional attributes.
In order to stream song we need to get the authorization

  song = songs.first
  url = client.get_song_url(song)
  
Given url is valid only for current session and cannot be shared or stored permanently.
Also, it probably violates terms of service.
  
= User Authentication

To get your user account you need to provide username and password.
If username or password is not valid InvalidAuthentication exception will be raised.

  client = Grooveshark::Client.new
  
  begin
    user = client.login('username', 'password')
  rescue InvalidAuthentication
    puts "Oooops! Wrong username or password"
  end

= Playlists and favorites

Get all user playlists

  user.playlists.each do |p|
    p.id          # Playlist ID
    p.name        # Playlist name
    p.about       # Playlist description (empty by default)
  end
  
Get user playlist

  playlist = user.get_playlist(PLAYLIST_ID)
  
Get all playlist songs
  
  playlist = user.get_playlist(ID)
  playlist.load_songs
  songs = playlist.songs
  
Rename existing playlist

  playlist = user.get_playlist(ID)
  playlist.rename('NEW NAME', 'NEW DESCRIPTION')

Delete existing user playlist

  playlist = user.get_playlist(ID)
  playlist.delete
  
Create a new playlist. First parameter is mandatory, description and songs are optional.
For songs you can provide array of Song objects or array of IDs.
  
  songs = client.search_songs('Joe Satriani')
  p = user.create_playlist('NAME', 'DESCRIPTION', songs)
  
Get user favorite songs

  songs = user.favorites
  
Add song to favorites

  user.add_favorite(song) # Song object or song ID
  
Remove song from favorites

  user.remove_favorite(song) # Song object or song ID
  
= User library

Get all songs from library as a collection of Song objects

  songs = user.library
  
Add songs to library

  songs = client.search_songs('The Beatles')
  user.library_add(songs)
  
Remove selected songs from library. Unfortunately mass-deletion is not supported by Grooveshark API. You will have to delete each song via separate method call.

  song = user.library.first # Lest pick a first song in the library
  user.library_remove(song)
  
= Explore community

Get all recently active users

  client.recent_users
  
Find user by ID

  client.get_user_by_id('ID')
  
Find user by username

  client.get_user_by_username('username')
  
Fetch recent user activity

  user = client.get_user_by_username('user')
  user.feed
  
= Known issues

* Communication token gets rejected after some time. This timeframe is always different. Additional research didnt show any results.

= TODO

* Testing
* Library management coverage
* More methods

= Credits

* Dan Sosedoff - http://github.com/sosedoff
* Daniel Lamando - http://github.com/danopia